# SpringMVCFilmCRUD

## Description
There are a multitude of applications where a user needs to interact with a database. Sometimes, the user may have a need to either update some information from a database, add data to it, or even delete data from it. A normal user will only see what is displayed to them. They would only see if the information they input had their desired output. This application, which is linking what the user types in the forms he sees online to the changes made to the database through the use of Agile Programming, Spring MVC, HTML, Gradle and Java. The user has access to a film database in this project. This program starts with a home page where the user can choose to either find a film by its respective ID, choose to search a film in the database through a keyword, or add a film. If the user wishes to add a film, then they can input the appropriate information given to them through the forms, drop down menus, as well as check box options. If the user wishes to modify or edit a film, then the user can choose to do so. The changes made will reflect. However, if the user tried to input inaccurate data, or delete a film which has child dependencies in other tables, then they will get the appropriate error message displayed to them. Therefore, we are only allowing the user to delete a film which they have added themselves. 
## Technologies Used
Spring MVC, Java, HTML, Gradle, Github, SQL, SpringToolSuite4
## Lessons Learned
With the creation of this project, we have gained a further understanding of making queries with SQL that will allow us to display that information to the user. One of the main areas where we gained valuable experience was in creating the controllers, for adding, updating, and removing films to or from the database, and the corresponding methods. We made use of peer programming with a driver and a navigator in order to trouble shoot the issues. With each member handling their respective tasks, it made the process to construct this project much easier. Understanding the flow in which the program would run was a crucial task that helped us complete this project. Troubleshooting by reading any errors displayed on the webpage or the console also helped us understand how to go about fixing the issues. If one of us got stuck, we would then again make use of agile programming techniques to fix the issue, and then go about continue the work. 